{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14200\viewh14960\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 +++++++++++++++++++++++++\
Analysis codebook for Getting and Cleaning Data project\
Nathan Choi\
+++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
The R script run_analysis.R performs a series of actions on text data files from the \'93Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset\'94 to return two new data frames in CSV format. \
\
The data files that are present in this repo are text files delimited by \'93  \'93 (two whitespaces). \
\
The following action by this script are performed\
\
1. Load tidy verse and plyr (lines 2-3)\
2. Load training, testing, and necessary labels from data sets; create a data frame of each (lines 5-20)\
3. Take the y_train or y_test data and use them as the column names for each respective data frame (line 12 and 19)\
4. Merge the subject and activities into each data frame. (line 20)\
5. Check to see that the column names of each data frame match with each other (line 24)\
6. Merge the data frames and then arrange by Subject (line 25)\
7. Make a dictionary to translate the activity into a description (lines 27-34)\
8. Change the activity atomic value into characters (line 36)\
9. Run a simple for loop to collect the activity description (lines 37-42)\
10. Replace the activity values with the description (line 44)\
11. Take column names of the merged data frame \'93finalTable\'94 and identify all columns with mean or std (line 46-47)\
12. Pull those columns only and then rearrange so Subject and Activity are the first two columns(line 48-49)\
13. Create a new data table that uses the column names except the first two columns and passes the mean based on grouping of subject and activity (lines 51-52)\
14. Clean up environment\
15. Write out csv files for finalTable and groupedMeansTable\
\
}